Hey guys.
So welcome back.
So in this video we want to do is look at validation.
We had a create form page that was collecting some information for the band and if you remember we put
in this validation message for and I didn't really cover that too much.
But in this video that's what I want to cover.
So the preferred method with dot net core is actually still to use Jake worry and Jake worry for its
validation.
And it really does help you a lot and you'll see here in the video.
But a lot of people are turned off from Jay Querrey and they don't want to use and you don't really
have to be then you're going to be custom rolling your own validation.
I'm sure there's validation of libraries out there.
But let me just show you how easy it is to actually use a query and invalidate the way most most every
place I've ever seen that uses done that does it.
So let's use the required attribute.
And this required actually we can give a custom error message and to it so we can say error message
equals and we can just say what does this field say.
John Roberts so say genre is required or something like that.
So now that we've added this attribute is called a data annotation and automatically because we've set
up our create page to have this validation message for for the genre.
If we enable clients validation by including just a couple of scripts so we need to our layout page
we can go ahead and get clients validation without having to do any work.
So if you paste then there is a CDN that I want to point to and the client side scripts right here.
If you just pause a screen or these to validate where you validate libraries that we need.
So now that we have those client scripts enabled if we go to try to submit our page the client validation
is automatically going to kick in.
It's going to look at that required attribute and it's going to see that there's no value in the genre
field here.
You can see like I know the you guys all MSW can see we can have a value here and if there's no value
it's going to go and throw an error message.
So you can say automatically genre is required it didn't even try to hit the server.
So all that code is set up for you right there.
Now normally you would want like you know some sort of style on.
So like you would end up having like the genre error really you could just have a general error message
probably error class that you can assign.
You'll see in a moment I can actually show you how to assign a class to this.
But if you do this like normally you would want to have like a color red because that's more of a that's
more in line with an error message.
But we'll actually see in the future videos actually how we apply custom attributes because that's actually
a completely separate video.
Now there's all kinds of other data annotations that we can use for validation.
Tons of freedom there.
So let's go out and look at a few of them.
The regular expression validation is something you're going to see a lot.
I'm going to do that right now and to do that you just simply say regular expression and then the first
arguments are what you should do a string escape string.
So that way it's basically a rostering format and then you're going to use whatever sort of you know
yeah whatever sort of validation you want.
So in this case this is a regular expression that says that there must be like some sort of you know
number what you like it's funny like why is it like Delia what does that stand for.
But anyway for what I guess it does it or something.
But anyway I think for whatever reason that is the regular expression for the number.
So this will say like so basically if there's not a number in the origin and you're going to throw an
error message.
And again you have the option of saying what that error message is you can pass it in and say you stupid
mother.
I mean just kidding.
So let's just keep it at that one.
And when we go ahead and try to validate this let's go and see if it works.
So once again hopefully you guys have the watch Make sure you guys watch my video about how to set up
a watch because it's so much easier than having to restart your server all the time.
So if we go back over to the web page now I'm just going to zoom really far in on the origin and we
didn't make it required by the way.
So if you try to go ahead and submit it it's probably only going to fire for the genre obviously because
I was the only one that we said it was required.
But once you go it and put something in the origin field list and put it so about I should put some
CSSA on this.
But anyway once you put a value in here a regular expression said actually one number.
So you can't have two because then it's going to fire the validation.
If you have one number validation goes away that's how you use the regular expression validator regular
expressions are like there isn't.
There's entire books written on the subject that is it's something I've been using for like eight years
but it is very very cryptic.
You can never really read them like you can write them pretty well but then you never really know how
to read them if they're really really complex.
I mean you just kind of have to rely on some but some are like literally like almost like pages long
and people just assume that they work because nobody has time to actually break down what the hell they're
actually doing.